---
ticket: 22
type: comment
comment_id: 4550408728
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-27T01:19:24Z
topic: gpu_hardware
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/22#issuecomment-4550408728
---

RE: bios_notes:
- I don't think "above 4G decoding" needs to be in the UUID input
- I don't think "resizable bar" is the right thing to be in the UUID, but rather the BAR size we use probably should be.
- I don't think SMT enabled/disabled status needs to be in the UUID; I think CPU thread count and CPU model should make that clear.
- we should track BIOS settings for other bus clock rates, multipliers, widths, etc.; anything not already tracked in (or encompassed by) another field that could affect transfer rates and overall performance of our tests.  For example, we are already going to track PCIe rates to the GPU in the join table, so there is no reason to track those settings.  Similarly, we are already tracking CPU clock speed, so there is no need to track an FSB clock and multiplier.
- does it make sense to separate the motherboard from the CPU into separate tables to reduce redundancy?  I'm thinking not since our tests will be GPU focused, but maybe?  If so, we would probably have to do something similar to the link table where we list linking capabilities and actual link rates and CPU interface becomes just another interface in the interface_types list.
- How would we handle multi-processor systems?  Perhaps this isn't an urgent enough question to address now though, since we have more important questions to focus on.
- Now that I'm thinking about it, just like we did with PCIe link interface information, maybe we should create a lookup table for various hardware adjustments and settings, like BIOS settings.  I'm thinking it would be nice if each motherboard can have just 1 base hardware record that is shared by all the setting variants that board can have, so only the settings change and without duplicating the larger text records. Then again, maybe I'm overthinking this for the current phase.

RE: hardware_schema_versions:
- this should be generalized as well to be used by any schema changes to any table
- therefore it should also be renamed "schema_versions"
- schema_version_id makes sense since this table will be seeded and serial
- instead of listing UUID fields added and removed, I think it makes more sense to have a text field that can be used to describe the changes in an machine readable format that can describe any number of changes.  UUID changes are important, but also adding tables or changes in how data is encoded somewhere might be a more complex change than just adding/removing a field from a UUID.  Is there some standard modeling format for DB schema changes that we can build from here?

RE: uuid_migrations:
- why do we have verification field and source?
- what is the purpose of the "verified" field?
- do we need entity_type?  I feel like that should be a FK to a lookup table rather than a text field.  The lookup table would be indexed and basically list the tables in the schema, along with a schema_version_id FK to the schema change that added the table and another to the schema_version_id that last modified it.  Maybe name the table schema_tables?
- in my mind, the purpose of this table is to allow us to recognize old UUIDs (from any table) and be able to migrate them to the new UUID with less effort.  I feel this is important if we plan to have (hopefully) millions of hardware submissions and need to track that data for a long time without data loss and across many generations of hardware changes.

RE: new_id removed from PK question: I think that proposition generally sounds like the correct process, but, as mentioned above, I question the necessity of the entity_type field to do so.  Perhaps we can include a method within the schema_versions table to explain where to get the new field's information, if it's possible.  Otherwise, the default (when information is not present) would be to log and fall back to operator flagging.  Ideally they would be able to implement some method of automation though because with thousands of hardware records, manually resolving changes by hand would be unmanageable at scale.  The new_id field is definitely not wanted in the table though.

RE: GPU fields:
- tflops_source should probably be another FK to a lookup table, which references a list of provided sources with contact information and/or public URLs when using manufacturer's values.  ID 0 (or 1 if zero is not available) in that lookup table should be the "unknown" value.  When we are ready to provide these metrics, we can add ourselves as a tflops_source in this table.  The records in the sources table should probably have some way to mangle the URL when needed to reference multiple GPUs from a single URL with (for example) the model number or architecture mapped as part of the URL.
- I don't think compute_units is a necessary field in the database; it will be implied by whatever manufacturer and architecture the GPU is based on, and possibly the software stack in use, but most importantly it doesn't matter to us what they want to call their units.  Unless you can explain why it's necessary or useful to us, I would say drop it.
- bf16 - I don't see why rescaling a float32 to 16 bit is much different than a bf16, but thank you for explaining that, and for the sake of completeness, it makes sense to include it.
- slot_index and UUID - while I agree that moving slots doesn't change the GPU itself, and for now I'm ok with not including the slot_index field, if we reach a point where hardware can distribute inference across multiple GPUs, we may need to know the list of GPUs (multiple/plural) used.
