---
ticket: 8
type: comment
comment_id: 4472485588
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-17T20:57:55Z
topic: interface_type
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/8#issuecomment-4472485588
---

In system_gpu_link, perhaps we should also have indexes on (system_hardware_id) and (gpu_hardware_id) since we will likely need to look up records by either of those fields independently.

Actually, rethinking system_gpu_link a bit, system_hardware_id and slot_index are the PKs for system_gpu_link.  A system only has a certain number of slots and they are sequential.  Each slot can be filled with any compatible GPU, which implies the GPU type is data about the slot.

Also, do we even need is_slot_limited?  we should be able to tell by simply looking at if the FK id's for the interface_type fields are equal; if actual != native then it must be degraded.  Maybe there is a performance reason to keep it though?

On that, I'm not sure if it makes more sense to have interface_type entries specific for degraded operation or simply concatenating it at runtime as: (actual_interface_type + "(degraded from" + native_interface_type +")").  I believe processing time for concatenating is negligible, but storing records for every possible combination of downgrade could become extensive.  I suppose a critical question would be: does bandwidth on a degraded link equal the same as the degraded link speed?  for example, if my "PCIe 3.0 16x" GPU is in a "PCIe 4.0 16x" slot, does the effective bandwidth equal that of a "PCIe 3.0 16x" slot in all scenarios?  I consider this because I could imagine a scenario where some newer generation has improved efficiency or signalling in such a way that even degraded links might be faster than their original native implementation.  Or inversely, that degraded links require some additional overhead making them actually slower than their actual link speed would imply.

Also, I think "native" of "native_interface_type" might not be specific enough - is that describing the system's native interface type, or the GPU's native interface type?  I think it should be a bit more specific.  Maybe "system_interface_type" or "gpu_interface_type"?  we should probably also add a FK field to the gpu_hardware table to declare the native interface_type for that GPU.  Obviously since there are multiple slots on a motherboard, each of which could have any of a variety of interface types, that needs to remain in the system_gpu_link table to define the value independently per slot.

run_hardware_metrics should probably reference whatever it is actually running on.  For now, it probably makes the most sense for run_hardware_metrics entries to reference the individual system_gpu_link entry since the other hardware information is accessible from there.  So it would connect the system_gpu_link id to the model used for a test run.

on NVLink, I'm not convinced that the gpu_gpu_link table is the best approach, but I agree with your phase 1 suggestion to ignore it for now.

If the system is capable of distributing a single model to run across multiple GPUs simultaneously, then we probably need a new table to define which system_gpu_link entries it was using for the test run.  This implies (in the most obvious example) a system_id and a range of slot indexes.

I suppose similarly, it's also theoretically possible to build an implementation that distributes a model across multiple physical systems too, so maybe when we encounter that, we can have a generalized "composite" system type that aggregates multiple system_gpu_link records into meta-systems and stores them in a new table for aggregate systems.

Much like the NVLink discussion, I don't think using multiple GPUs (or systems) for running a single model is a short term concern since I don't believe there is any hardware or software capable of doing that yet, so it probably makes more sense to put this in the backlog and plan this in more detail later rather than now.

I agree that we should update bakeoff-results soon, but we are still on hold there as well waiting for some report results to test UI things.  It probably makes the most sense to update the documentation there once we finalize the design planning here.
