---
ticket: 8
type: comment
comment_id: 4470606665
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-17T12:19:59Z
topic: system_gpu_link
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/8#issuecomment-4470606665
---

I agree that options A and B are bad for the reasons you suggested.  We will use option C, but I think it makes sense to move the fields describing the slot type into a reusable table of its own.  For example, "PCIe 3.0 16x" is a pretty well defined interface, which means we can normalize all the "full bandwidth" fields 

I think it makes sense to have an "interface_type" table with fields like:
pcie_gen_max, pcie_width_max, form_factor, description

Then we can remove those same fields from system_gpu_link and add another FK to interface_type_id.  interface_type_id does not need to be part of the unique/PK in that table, but the slot index should be.  Each card in a system should be some unique combination of system_hardware_id, gpu_hardware_id, and slot index.

The *_current fields could remain in the system_gpu_link table, or we could export them to the interface_type table and simply have "interface type" entries for all manner of degraded interfaces as well.  Having entries for degraded interfaces may be of benefit so we can provide descriptive text for those conditions that is tuned to common language (Example: "PCIe 3.0 16x slot running degraded at PCIe 2.0 8x signalling rate").

I don't know if nvlink is valuable, but perhaps we should consider how niche or practical it is before including it.

On the interface_type table, perhaps we should abstract those field names a bit to consider interfaces that are not based on a PCI Express standard?  The key bit of information being presented is the bandwidth numbers, not the PCI Express specifics.  If you prefer to keep that level of detail in a non description field, I'm open to using a more generic field to detail the interface-specific description of any interface bandwidth (so, the "2.0 8x" part of the description).  In this case, we store the bandwidth numbers in the data fields, but the description can still say things like "PCI Express 2.0 8x".  That may reduce the number of unnecessary fields and help to focus our data while remaining descriptive for user presentation.
