---
ticket: 8
type: comment
comment_id: 4476713600
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-18T10:23:03Z
topic: run_hardware_metrics
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/8#issuecomment-4476713600
---

Instead of in the system_hardware table, I feel like there should be a system_software table for the os, kernel_version, and other useful software versions.  I'm struggling with how to best link it in to the system_hardware and system_gpu_link tables though.  Maybe we should just add the FK to run_hardware_metrics for system_software_id, since software could influence all the values stored in this table?  system_software should probably also include the python version used to run the benchmark script, since it could make a difference in performance as well.  Are there any other essential versions that we should consider tracking?  Let me know your suggestions and we can refine it from there.

In run_hardware_metrics, field "time_to_first_token_ms" should probably be seconds instead of ms, since it's a float, it can still use ms (or more precise) resolution, and we just divide the value by 1000 to convert to seconds.  This allows use of consistent units.  time_to_first_token_ms should also be renamed to seconds_to_first_token.

It probably makes sense to convert other times in run_hardware_metrics from ms to seconds as well to be consistent.  cpu_time_user_ms should be renamed to cpu_seconds_user.  cpu_time_sys_ms should be renamed to cpu_seconds_sys.  gpu_wall_time_ms should be renamed to gpu_seconds.

If there is a way to get gpu_seconds information directly from the GPU during computation, we should use that, but gpu_seconds should probably be the number of seconds of full speed GPU required for the task, similar to cpu time calculations used for the CPU in linux-like operating systems.  If not available directly, we can calculate it approximately by summing the percentage GPU utilization per second of runtime, so that wall_clock_seconds * avg(tflops_utilization_pct) ~= gpu_seconds.  Being calculated in a different way allows us to validate the numbers are accurate.

In run_model_metrics, the fields model_id, task_id, and prompt_id shouldn't be TEXT most likely.  Especially since we plan to use the same prompts for multiple models, and multiple tasks/prompts per model as well.  Is the prompt data stored in the database or in a file?  Is a prompt a subset of a task?

I think we are almost done with our requirements for the hardware and performance metrics tables, but I think we need another issue to discuss run_model_metrics in more detail, along with it's associated model and testing data and how it connects to this table.  Please create an issue to discuss that, provide the current target schema and description so I can comment on it there, and tag me in that issue.
