---
ticket: 22
type: comment
comment_id: 4572098058
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-29T07:34:25Z
topic: persistence_layout
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/22#issuecomment-4572098058
---

RE: Self-identifying UUID:
The concerning consequence is that if the namespace differs for each version, that then forces a UUID update for every UUID record in that table for every schema version change.  That may cause the uuid_migrations table to explode in size even faster!

RE: Does this eliminate uuid_migrations?
What if we looked up unknown FK UUIDs to determine their table and version, but if it was older than our current version, we try to determine what version of the table it would expect based on its own version (it should be at least as new as the version_id of the record's own schema_version_id, and older than the next schema_version_id for that same table.  And we should be able to determine what table it would have been applying to based on the field name and schema_version table as well.  This means we can limit our "brute force" testing to a very limited selection of UUID keys.  Then we can still avoid UUIDs exploding in the uuid_migrations table.

That also means we can avoid the UUIDs in the uuid_migrations table entirely, and avoid creating a table that would be forever increasing in size with unlimited numbers of UUIDs being generated as we scale up and migrate records, without ever being able to delete them.

I really want to try to remove the UUID field from the uuid_migrations table (and probably rename it to "table_migrations" or possibly integrate it with schema_versions).

RE: open question about schema_tables uuid_namespaces: I think it makes sense for each namespace to be in the schema_tables table as you suggested.  They should also be stored into backing files on disk though, since they are essential.  This likely affects the work done for #13 .

RE: Consolidated migration-related table schemas: once again though, I would like to remove the old_uuid/new_uuid fields from the table.  Also, I thought we revised uuid_migrations in various ways, confirmed in Bastion response on 272335ZMAY26, given now we are changing it more.  This can become a new issue if you would prefer to focus the conversation on addressing the migration/schema tables.

Are there other pending questions for this thread?
