---
ticket: 22
type: comment
comment_id: 4554217644
author: gissf1
posted: 2026-05-27T11:46:49Z
topic: tflops_source
url: https://github.com/Rethunk-AI/bakeoff/issues/22#issuecomment-4554217644
---

RE: pcie_gen_override: I don't think that it even matters enough to store the setting, because its effects will be visible in the PCIe interface link table and therefore the setting will not impact performance any differently than if the actual link rate were degraded for some other reason.

RE: schema_versions scripting language: Is LUA a better option than libraries like Gonja, Pongo2, sprig, or just using Go templates?  There may be others as well.  I don't mind LUA if it's clearly the best option, but I want to be sure before considering introducing a new language dependency into the project.  You mentioned CEL, I could see that also working given the right CEL environment setup and functions, but ideally we should aim to minimize "rolling our own" on this if something else does the job for us; This will maximize the available features and reduce development and testing time, not to mention having less bugs and security risks due to higher code visibility / exposure.

RE: schema_versions storage: migration_script TEXT field in table makes sense to me; approved.

RE: uuid_migrations:
- maybe we should just rename entity_type to table_id?  That may be more clear.
- resolution_script field should be in schema_versions, not here.
- I'm not sure we need both of from_version and to_version in here; maybe neither?
- I don't know if we need schema_versions.changes the way we described before if we have a full scripting language in resolution_script.  What was our latest definition of schema_versions so I can refine both of these as needed, since they are related.
- I think resolution_script should get a better name.  `migration_script`?  or maybe we need a `record_migration_script` and a `schema_migration_script`?  Maybe the schema_migration_script can include code to iterate over records to do database record upgrades as well as the actual schema changes?
- allow_auto_migrate: I think this name makes sense, but maybe just `allow_migration` is good enough?  I'm open to suggestions on this as well.

RE: tflops_sources:
- contacts: JSONB is acceptable for now.  I'm not sure if we need an independent contacts table, but we can defer that decision to phase 2, as this will work for now.
- url_template / url_script: I think we should have a simple "url_template" field which can hold a static URL reference for now, and anything more complicated can be filtered out later.  We can differentiate static strings by looking at their prefix against known URL types: ("http://", "https://", "file://", etc), and we can assume anything else is an expression in whatever scripting (or templating) language we decide to use in schema_versions (so we are consistent).
